---
{"dg-publish":true,"draft":false,"permalink":"/MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# Basic Definitions and Properties of Dimension

> [!definition]
> Let $X$ be a variety. Define $\dim X=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_kk(X)=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k\mathrm{Frac}(R)$, where $\Gamma(U)=R$ for some affine open set $U\subseteq X$. 

**Remark.** 
- For nonempty open set $U\subseteq X$, $k(X)=k(U)$ as $\underline{o}_X(W)\simeq \underline{o}_X(W\cap U)$ and $W\cap U\neq \emptyset$ for any open set $W$. Therefore, $\dim X=\dim U$.
{ #6d5zhx}

- If $U$ is affine, $\Gamma(U)=R$ and $k(U)=\mathrm{Frac}(R)$. See [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.5 Definition of Prevarieties and Morphisms#^1376yi\|here]]. 

> [!check] an equivalent definition
> It has an equivalent geometric definition, via chains of irreducible closed subsets.
> 
> $$\dim X = \max \{ n \mid Z_0 \subsetneq Z_1 \subsetneq \cdots \subsetneq Z_n \}$$
> 
> where each $Z_i$ is an irreducible closed subset of $X$. The equivalence is shown in [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^jp5j6v\|#^jp5j6v]].


> [!proposition]
> Since $k$ is algebraically closed, the following are equivalent:
> - $\operatorname{dim} X=0$
> - $k(X)=k$
> - $X$ is a point.

**_Proof._**
i)<->ii) Since $\dim X=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k k(X)=0$, we know $k(X)=k$. Conversely, if $k(X)=k$, then $\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k k(X)=0$ and so $\dim X=0$. 

ii)->iii) Assume that $k(X)=k$. Since $X$ is a variety and a prevariety, it has an affine open subset $U\subseteq X$. Then we have $k(X)=k(U)=\mathrm{Frac}(R)=k$ by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^6d5zhx\|remark]] and so $U$ is a point. Since $X$ is irreducible and $U=\{p\}$ is open in $X$, we know $X=U=\{p\}$. 

iii)->ii) Since $X$ is a point, $X\simeq \mathbb{A}^0=\mathrm{Spec}(k)$ and $\Gamma(X,\underline{o}_X)=k$. [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.5 Definition of Prevarieties and Morphisms#^1376yi\|Then]] $k(X)=\mathrm{Frac}(k)=k$. 
<p align="left">□</p>



> [!lemma]
> Let $R$ be an integral domain over $k, P \subset R$ a prime. Then $\operatorname{tr} . \mathrm{deg} _k R \geqslant \operatorname{tr} . \mathrm{deg} _k R/p$, with equality only if $P=\{0\}$ or both sides are $\infty$. 
{ #xsfnsk}


**_Proof._**
Let $\mathrm{tr}\deg_k R=n<\infty$, and let $P\neq \{0\}$. If the statement does not hold. Then there exist $x_1,\cdots,x_n\in R$ such that $\overline x_1,\cdots,\overline x_n\in R/p$ are algebraically independent. Let $q\in P\setminus\{0\}$. Then $q,x_1,\cdots,x_n$ are algebraically dependent, that is, there exists a polynomial $T(y,x_1,\cdots,x_n)\neq 0$ such that $T(q,x_1,\cdots,x_n)=0$. We can assume that $y\not\mid T(y,x_1,\cdots,x_n)$. (If $T=y^nT_1\cdots T_\ell$, then $T(q,x_1,\cdots,x_n)=q^nT_1\cdots T_\ell$ with $q^n\neq 0$. So we can replace $T$ by $T_i$ for some $i$.)

Note that 

$$0=T(\overline q,\overline x_1,\cdots,\overline x_n)=T(0,\overline x_1,\cdots,\overline x_n)$$

and $T(0,x_1,\cdots,x_n)\neq 0$. As $T(0,\overline x_1,\cdots,\overline x_n)=0$, they are algebraically dependent, which is a contradiction. 
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!proposition]
> Let $Y$ be a proper closed subvariety of $X$. Then $\operatorname{dim} Y<\operatorname{dim} X$.
{ #7w5xag}


**_Proof._**
For $y_0\in Y$, define $y_0\in U\subseteq X$ for affine open set $U$. Since $Y\cap U\neq \emptyset$, $\dim X=\dim U$ and $\dim Y=\dim Y\cap U$. Note that $\Gamma(U)=R$ and $\Gamma(Y\cap U)=R/p$ with a prime ideal $p\subseteq R$, then $Y\neq X$ yields $p\neq \{0\}$ and $\dim Y<\dim X$ by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^xsfnsk\|#^xsfnsk]].
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!theorem] Krull's Principal ideal theorem (PIT)
> Define
> - $R$ a finitely generated integral domain over $k$
> - $f\in R$, $f\neq 0$ and $f\notin R^*$
> - $p$ is a minimal prime ideal containing $f$.
> 
> then $\mathrm{tr}.\deg_kR/p=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_kR-1$.
{ #a5bed9}



> [!theorem]
> Let $X$ be an variety, and let $U\subseteq X$ be an open set. Take $0\neq g\in\Gamma(U,\underline{o}_X)$ and $Z$ is an irreducible component of $\{z\in U:g(x)=0\}\neq \emptyset$. Then $\dim Z=\dim X-1$. 
{ #jp5j6v}


**_Proof._**
There exists open affine $U_0\subseteq X$ such that $U_0\cap Z\neq \emptyset$. Define $\Gamma(U_0)=R$ with $f=g|_{U_0}\in R$. Then $Z_0=U_0\cap Z$ is an irreducible component of $\{z\in U_0:f(z)=0\}$. As $\dim Z=\dim (U_0\cap Z)$ by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^6d5zhx\|remark]], it suffices to show $\dim (U_0\cap Z)=\dim U_0-1$. 

Firstly, note that $\dim U_0=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k \mathrm{Frac}(R)$. On the other hand, [[MATH/交换代数/Nodes/4 Primary Decomposition#^eai9n3\|recall]] that for a closed set $V(f)$ which has irreducible components $V(f)=Z_1'\cup\cdots\cup Z_\ell'$, then each $Z_k'$ corresponds a minimal prime ideals $p_k=I(Z_k')$ containing $(f)$. So $Z_0=V(p)$ where $p$ is the minimal prime ideal containing $f$, and we have $\Gamma(Z_0)\simeq R/p$ and $k(Z_0)=\mathrm{Frac}(R/p)$. Then by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]] there is 

$$\dim Z_0=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k \mathrm{Frac}(R/p)=\mathrm{tr}.\deg_k\mathrm{Frac}(R)-1=\dim U_0-1.$$

Now we finish the proof. 
<p align="left">□</p>


# Finite Morphism

> [!check] Motivation for Finite Morphisms
> Suppose we have a morphism of varieties $f: X \to Y$. Naturally, we start asking:
> - How are the dimensions of $X$ and $Y$ related?
> - Can the morphism “control” functions on $X$ via the structure of $Y$?
> - Is there a way to mimic finite field extensions through geometric maps?
> 
> These questions motivate the study of finite morphisms.


> [!definition] finite morphism
> Let $f:X\to Y$ be a morphism between affine varieties, and let $f^*:S\to R$ with $R=\Gamma(X)$ and $S=\Gamma(Y)$. Then $f$ is a *finite morphism* if $R$ is a finitely generated $f^*(S)$-module. Note that $R$ is a finitely generated $f^*(S)$-module iff $R$ is a finitely generated $S$-module iff $R$ is integral dependent on $f^*(S)$, that is, for any $r\in R$, there exists a monic polynomial $q(x)\in f^*(S)[x]$ such that $q(r)=0$. 
{ #366guy}


**Remark.** Recall that $R$ is a finitely generated $S$-module $\iff$ $R$ is integral over $S$ is proved [[MATH/交换代数/Nodes/5 Integral Dependence and Valuation#^jy6o7s\|here]]. 

> [!proposition]
> Let $f:X\to Y$ be a finite morphism. 
> - $f$ is a closed map, i.e., $Z\subseteq X$ closed yields $f(Z)\subseteq Y$ closed;
> - for any $y\in Y$, $f^{-1}(y)$ is a finite set (quasi-finite);
> - $f$ is surjective iff $f^*:\Gamma(Y)\to \Gamma(X)$ is injective. 

**_Proof._**
Define $m_{y_0}\subseteq S=\Gamma(Y)$ and $m_{x_0}\subseteq R=\Gamma(X)$, where $m_{x_0}=I(\{x_0\})$. We claim that if $f(x_0)=y_0$, then $m_{y_0}=(f^*)^{-1}(m_{x_0})$. For any $x\in m_{y_0}$, one have $(f^*(s))(x_0)=(s\circ f)(x_0)=s(y_0)=0$ and so $f^*(s)\in m_{x_0}$. It deduces that $m_{y_0}\subseteq (f^*)^{-1}(m_{x_0})$. By $m_{y_0}$ maximal, there is $m_{y_0}=(f^*)^{-1}(m_{x_0})$. 

i) For any closed $Z\subseteq X$ such that $Z=V(I)$, we aim to show $f(V(I))=V(J)$ with $J=(f^*)^{-1}(I)$. Define $J=(f^*)^{-1}(I)$, then $R$ is a finitely generated $S$-module yields that $R/I$ is a finitely generated $S/J$-module. Thus $R/I$ is integral over $S/J$. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.1 Some Algebra#^6qz19f\|1.1 Some Algebra#^6qz19f]], every prime ideal of $S/J$ is the restriction of a prime ideal from $R/I$. 

For any $y_0\in V(J)$, take the corresponding maximal ideal $m_{y_0}/J$. By Going-Up, there exists prime ideal $Q/I$ of $R/I$ such that $m_{y_0}/J=(Q/I)\cap S/J$. It deduces that $m_{y_0}\subseteq (f^*)^{-1}(Q)\subseteq (f^*)^{-1}(m_{x_0})$, for some maximal ideal $m_{x_0}\supseteq Q\supseteq I$. So $m_{y_0}=(f^*)^{-1}(m_{x_0})$ and then $f(x_0)=y_1(=y_0)$ by the argument above. Hence, for any $y_0\in V(J)$, there exists $x_0\in V(I)$ such that $f(x_0)=y_0$. Therefore, $V(J)\subseteq f(V(I))$. 

Conversely, to show $f(V(I))\subseteq V(J)$, it suffices to show for any $x\in V(I)$, we have $f(x)\in V(J)$. Take $x_0\in V(I)$ and $y_0=f(x)$. For any $j\in J$, $f^*(j)\in I$ and so $f^*(j)(x)=j(f(x))=j(y_0)=0$. Thus $y\in V(J)$ and so $f(V(I))\subseteq V(J)$. Therefore, $V(J)=f(V(I))$ and $f$ is a closed map.

ii) Since $R$ is a finitely generated $S$-module, we know $R'=R/f^*(m_y)R$ is a finitely generated $S/m_y$-module, where $k=S/m_y$ is a field. It deduces that $R'$ is a finite-dimensional $k$-algebra and so it is Artinian. By [[MATH/交换代数/Nodes/8 Artinian Rings#^steden\|8 Artinian Rings#^steden]], $R'$ has finitely many maximal ideals. Recall that for any $x\in f^{-1}(y)$, there is $(f^*)^{-1}(m_x)=m_y$. Thus $f^{-1}(y)$ is a finite set. 

iii) Assume that $f$ is surjective. If $f^*(s)=0$, then $s\circ f=0$ on $X$ and so $s(f(X))=s(Y)=0$. Thus $s=0$ and $f^*$ is injective. Conversely, if $f^*$ is injective, then by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.3 Morphisms#^j3610u\|1.3 Morphisms#^j3610u]] $f(X)$ is dense in $Y$. Since $f$ is a closed map, $Y=\overline {f(X)}=f(X)$ and so $f$ is surjective. 
<p align="left">□</p>


**Counterexample.** $\mathbb{A}^1\setminus\{0\}\hookrightarrow \mathbb{A}^1$ satisfies ii) but not i). It is not a finite morphism, because $\Gamma(\mathbb{A}^1\setminus\{0\})=k[x,x^{-1}]$ is not a finitely generated $k[x]$-module.

**Remark.** If $Z\subseteq X$ is a closed subvariety, then $Z\stackrel{j}{\hookrightarrow}X\stackrel{ f}{\to} Y$ is still finite, because $\Gamma(Z)=\Gamma(X)/I$ is still finitely generated. 

# Codimension and Intersection Theory

> [!definition]
> Let $X$ be a variety, and let $Z\subseteq X$ be a closed subset. We say $Z$ has pure dimension $r$ if each of its irreducible component of $Z$ is $\dim r$. Define $\mathrm{codim}_X Z_j=\dim X-\dim Z_j$. In general, $\dim Z=\max\{\dim Z_j:Z=\cup Z_j\text{ is irreducible decomposition}\}$. 

**Remark.** By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]], for any $g\in \Gamma(X,\underline{o}_X)$ with $V(g)\neq \emptyset$, $V(g)$ has pure $\mathrm{codim}1$. 

> [!corollary]
> Let $X$ be a variety. For a maximal irreducible subset $Z\subsetneq X$ (i.e. if $Z\subseteq W\subseteq X$ with irreducible $W$, then $Z=W$), we have $\dim Z=\dim X-1$.
{ #3de0e2}


**_Proof._**
Since $Z\neq X$, there is $\dim Z<\dim X$ by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^7w5xag\|#^7w5xag]] and so $I(Z)\neq (0)$. If $X$ is an affine variety, then take any nonzero $g\in I(Z)$ and consider $V_X(g)=\{x\in X:g(x)=0\}=W_1\cup\cdots\cup W_s$. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]], each irreducible component $W_j\subseteq V_X(g)$ has codimension $1$. Since $Z\subseteq V_X(g)$ is irreducible, there exists $j_0$ such that $Z\subseteq W_j$. Additionally, since $Z$ is maximal, one can check $Z=W_j$ and so $\dim Z=\dim X-1$. 

If $X$ is not affine, take an affine open set $U\subseteq X$ such that $Z\cap U\neq \emptyset$ and define $Z_U=Z\cap U$. We first prove that $Z_U$ is a maximal irreducible subset of $U$. For any irreducible closed subset $W_U$ such that $Z_U\subseteq W_U\subsetneq U$, notice that $\overline{W_U}^X\cap U=W_U$ and $\overline {W_U}^X$ is an irreducible closed subset of $X$. Claim that $\overline{W_U}^X\subsetneq X$. Otherwise, $\overline{W_U}^X=X$ and $W_U=X\cap U=U$, which is impossible. Since $Z\cap U$ is an open set of $Z$, it is dense, i.e., $\overline{Z\cap U}^X=Z$. As $Z_U\subseteq W_U$, there is $Z=\overline{Z_U}^X\subseteq \overline{W_U}^X=X$, which deduces that $Z=\overline{W_U}^X$. Therefore, $Z_U=\overline{W_U}^X\cap U=W_U$ and by the arbitrary of $W_U$ we know $Z_U$ is maximal. 

By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/HW5#^ci942w\|homework]], $Z_U$ is an irreducible closed subset of $U$ and $Z_U\subsetneq U$ (otherwise $Z\supseteq U$ and $\overline Z\supseteq \overline U=X$, which is impossible). Take $g\in \Gamma(U,\underline{o}_U)$ such that $g|_{Z_U}\equiv 0$ and $g$ is not always zero over $U$. Consider the set $V_U(g)=\{x\in U:g(x)=0\}$, which can be written as $V_U(g)=W_1\cup\cdots \cup W_s$ and $V_U(g)\supseteq Z_U$. Since $Z_U$ is irreducible and maximal in $U$, we have $Z=W_j$ for some $j$ and so $\dim Z_U=\dim U-1$. Since $Z_U\subseteq Z$ is an open subset of $Z$ and $U$ is an open subset of $X$, by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^6d5zhx\|remark]] we have $\dim Z=\dim Z_U=\dim X-1$. 
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!corollary] Topological characterization of dimension
> Suppose
> 
> $$\emptyset \neq Z_1 \nsubseteq Z_2 \nsubseteq \ldots Z_1 \nsubseteq Z$$
> 
> is any maximal chain of closed irreducible subsets of $X$. Then $\operatorname{dim} X=r$.

**_Proof._**
Use induction and apply [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^3de0e2\|#^3de0e2]].
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!corollary]
> Let $X$ be a variety and let $Z$ be a component of $V\left(\left(f_1, \ldots, f_r\right)\right)$, where $f_1, \ldots, f_r \in \Gamma\left(X, \underline{o}_X\right)$. Then $\operatorname{codim} Z \leqslant r$. 
{ #kp35p2}


**_Proof._**
We prove it by induction on $r$. When $r=1$, $Z$ is a component of $V(f_1)$. If $f_1=0$, then $V(f_1)=X$ and $\mathrm{codim} Z=0$. Otherwise, if $f_1\neq 0$, then $V(f_1)$ has codimension $1$ by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]] and so for $Z$. Hence $\mathrm{codim}_XZ\leqslant 1=r$. Assume that the statement holds for $r=k-1$, and assume $Z$ is an irreducible component of $V(f_1,\cdots,f_k)=V(f_1,\cdots,f_{k-1})\cap V(f_k)\subseteq V(f_1,\cdots,f_{k-1})$. Then $Z$ is contained in some irreducible component $Z'\subseteq V(f_1,\cdots,f_{k-1})$ and so $Z$ is an irreducible component of $Z'\cap V(f_k)$. 

If $f_k|_{Z'}\equiv 0$, then $Z'\subseteq V(f_k)$ and $Z'\cap V(f_k)=Z=Z'$. Hence $\mathrm{codim}_XZ=\mathrm{codim}_X Z'\leqslant k-1\leqslant k$ and we have done. If $f_k|_{Z'}\not\equiv 0$, then $Z$ is an irreducible component of $Z'\cap V(f_k|_{Z'})$. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]], we have $\mathrm{codim}_{Z'} Z=1$ and so 

$$\mathrm{codim}_XZ=\dim X-\dim Z=\dim X-(\dim Z'-1)=\mathrm{codim}_X Z'+1.$$

By induction hypothesis, $\mathrm{codim}_XZ\leqslant k$. Now we finish the proof.
<p align="left">□</p>


**Example.** Define $Z=\{(t^3,t^4,t^5):t\in k\}\subseteq \mathbb{A}^3$, then $Z=V(x^4-y^3,x^5-z^3,y^5-z^4)$ and $\mathrm{codim} Z=2$. However, $I(Z)=(x^4-y^3,x^5-z^3,y^5-z^4)$ cannot be generated by $2$ elements (not easy to prove). 


> [!corollary]
> Let $U$ be an affine variety, and let $Z$ be a closed irreducible subset. Let $r=$ codim $Z$. Then there exist $f_1, \ldots, f_r$ in $R=\Gamma\left(U, \underline{o}_U\right)$ such that $Z$ is a component of $V\left(\left(f_1, \ldots, f_r\right)\right)$.
{ #e42573}


**_Proof._**
We prove it by induction on $r$. When $r=0$, there is $Z=U$ and so $\{f_i\}=\emptyset$ is what we desired. When $r=1$, take $f_1\in I(Z)$ and then $Z\subseteq V(f_1)$. Since $Z\subseteq V(f_1)$ is irreducible, there exists an irreducible component $W_j\subseteq V(f_1)$ such that $Z\subseteq W_j$. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^a5bed9\|#^a5bed9]], $\dim Z=\dim W_j=\dim U-1$ and so $Z=W_j$, i.e., $Z$ is a component of $V(f_1)$. 

Assume that the statement holds for all $r'<k$, that is, if $r'=\mathrm{codim} Z<k$, then there exists $f_1,\cdots,f_{r'}$ such that $Z$ is a component of $V(f_1,\cdots,f_{r'})$. Now suppose $\mathrm{codim} Z=k$. Since $Z\subsetneq U$, there exists nonzero $f_1\in I(Z)$ and $Z\subseteq V(f_1)$. Then $Z\subseteq W$ for some irreducible component $W\subseteq V(f_1)$. If $Z=W$, then $\mathrm{codim} _UZ=\mathrm{codim}_UW=1$ and we have done. If $Z\neq W$, then $\mathrm{codim}_WZ=\dim W-\dim Z=(\dim U-1)-\dim Z=k-1<k$. Note that $W$ is an affine variety as $U$ is an affine variety, then by induction hypothesis there exist $\overline{g_2},\cdots,\overline{g_k}\in \Gamma(U)/I(W)$ such that $Z$ is a component of $V_W(\overline{g_2},\cdots,\overline{g_k})$. Suppose $f_i=g_i$ is a representative of $\overline {g_i}$. 

Consider the set $Y_0=V_U\left(f_1, f_2, \ldots, f_k\right)$. We can prove that $Z$ is an irreducible component of $Y_0$; *although the proof is nontrivial, we omit it here*. This completes the argument.
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!proposition]
> Let $X$ be an affine variety with coordinate ring $R$. Assume $R$ is a UFD. Then every closed subset $Z \subset X$ of pure codimension 1 equals $V((f))$ for some $f \in R$.
{ #yof8h3}


**_Proof._**
Since $R$ is a UFD, every minimal prime ideal of $R$ is principal. For a minimal prime ideal $P \subset R$ and $f \in P$, $P$ contains one of the prime factors $f^{\prime}$ of $f$. By the UFD property, $\left(f^{\prime}\right)$ is also a prime ideal and since $\left(f^{\prime}\right) \subset P$, we must have $\left(f^{\prime}\right)=P$. Let $Z_1, \ldots, Z_t$ be the components of $Z$. Then $I\left(Z_1\right), \ldots, I\left(Z_t\right)$ are minimal prime ideals. If $I\left(Z_i\right)=\left(f_i\right)$, then

$$Z=V\left(\left(f_1, \ldots, f_t\right)\right) =V(f_1\cdots f_t).$$

Now we finish the proof. 
<p align="left">□</p>


**Example.** Localization can get better ring (non UFD -> UFD for example). 
- Define $X=V(xy-z^2)\subseteq \mathbb{A}^3$ with $\Gamma(X)=R=k[x,y,z]/(xy-z^2)$, and $W=\{x=0\}\cap X=\{(0,y,0):y\in \mathbb{A}^1\}$. 
	- $I(W)=(x,z)$ is a prime ideal, which is not a principal ideal. 
- Consider its localization $X_y=\{(x,y,z)\in X:y\neq 0\}=X\setminus V(y)$.
	- $\Gamma(X_y)=R_y=k[y,y^{-1},z/y]$ is a UFD, because $k[y,z/y]$ is a UFD and $R_y$ is a localization of $k[y,z/y]$ and so also a UFD.
	- $(I(W))_y=(z/y)$ is generated by $f=z/y$, which is consistent with [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^yof8h3\|#^yof8h3]]. 


> [!proposition]
> $\operatorname{dim} X \times Y=\operatorname{dim} X+\operatorname{dim} Y$

**_Proof._**
Suppose $U\subseteq X$ and $V\subseteq Y$ are affine open sets. Then $\dim X\times Y=\dim U\times V$ where $\Gamma(U)=R$, $\Gamma(V)=S$. Because $\Gamma(U\times V)=R\otimes_kS$, we have 

$$\dim U\times V=\mathrm{tr}\deg_k R\otimes_k S\stackrel{\Delta}{=}\mathrm{tr}\deg R+\mathrm{tr}\deg S=n+m.$$

It suffices to show $\Delta$: note that $R\supseteq k[x_1,\cdots,x_n]$ and $S\supseteq k[y_1,\cdots,y_m]$ are algebraic by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.1 Some Algebra#^d13b03\|1.1 Some Algebra#^d13b03]], then $R\otimes S\supseteq k[x_1,\cdots,x_n,y_1,\cdots,y_m]$ are algebraic. 
<p align="left">□</p>

# Dimension in Projective Varieties

> [!theorem]
> Let $X \subset \mathbb{P}_n(k)$ be a projective variety, and let $I(X) \subset k\left[X_0, \ldots, X_n\right]$ be its ideal. If $f \in k\left[X_0, \ldots, X_n\right]$ is homogeneous and not a constant and $f \notin I$, then $X \cap V((f))$ is non-empty and of pure codimension $1$ in $X$, unless $\operatorname{dim} X=0$.

**Remark.** $X\cap V((f))\neq\emptyset$ does not always hold in affine case. For example, $X=\{x=0\}\subseteq \mathbb{A}^3$ and $V(f)=\{x=1\}\subseteq \mathbb{A}^3$ do not have intersection.

**_Proof._**
It is enough to show $X\cap V((f))\neq\emptyset$ for all non-constant $f\notin I(X)$, because remains part has proved by PIT. 

Suppose $\dim X\geqslant 1$. Define $C(X)=V^*(I(X))\subseteq \mathbb{A}^{n+1}$. Since $I(X)$ is homogeneous, there is $0\in C(X)$ and so $0\in Z^*=C(X)\cap V^*(f)$. Note that $\dim C(X)=\dim X+1\geqslant 2$ and $f$ is not always $0$ on $C(X)$ as $f\notin I(X)$. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.7 Dimensions#^jp5j6v\|#^jp5j6v]], every irreducible component of $C(X)\cap V^*(f)$ has dimension $\dim C(X)-1=\dim X\geqslant 1$. It deduces that $Z^*$ has a nonzero point $(a_0,\cdots,a_n)$, which corresponds to $[a_0:\cdots: a_n]$ in $\mathbb{P}^n(k)$. Then $[a_0:\cdots:a_n]\in X\cap V(f)$ and so the set is nonempty.
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!corollary]
> Take homogeneous $f_1,f_2\in k[x_0,\cdots,x_n]\setminus k$, where $n\geqslant 2$. If $\dim V(f_1)\geqslant 1$, then $V(f_1)\cap V(f_2)\neq \emptyset$ in $\mathbb{P}^n$.





