---
{"dg-publish":true,"draft":false,"permalink":"/MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.9 Complete Variety/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


结式
**Resultant.** For $f(x)=a_nx^n+\cdots+a_0$ and $g(x)=b_mx^m+,,,+b_m$, there exists $\mathrm{Res}(f,g)\in k[a_0,\cdots,a_n,b_0,\cdots,b_m]$ such that $f(x),g(x)$ have a common root iff $\mathrm{Res}(f,g)=0$. 

**Higher-dimensional case. (elimination theory).** 

Main theorem of elimination theory

Given $r$ polynomials, with coefficients in $k$ :

$$
\begin{gathered}
f_1\left(x_0, \ldots, x_n ; y_1, \ldots, y_m\right) \\
\ldots \ldots \ldots \ldots \ldots \ldots \ldots \\
f_r\left(x_0, \ldots, x_n ; y_1, \ldots, y_m\right)
\end{gathered}
$$

all of which are homogeneous in the variables $x_0, \ldots, x_n$, there is a second set of polynomials (with coefficients in $k$ ):

$$
\begin{gathered}
g_1\left(y_1, \ldots, y_m\right) \\
\ldots \ldots \ldots . \\
g_\nu\left(y_1, \ldots, y_m\right)
\end{gathered}
$$

such that for all $m$-tuples $\left(a_1, \ldots, a_m\right)$ in $k, g_i\left(a_1, \ldots, a_m\right)=0$, all $i$ if and only if there is a non-zero $(n+1)$-tuple $\left(b_0, \ldots, b_n\right)$ in $k$ such that $f_i\left(b_0, \ldots, b_m ; a_1, \ldots, a_m\right)=0$, all $i$. 


For any closed set $Z\subseteq \mathbb{P}^n\times \mathbb{A}^m$, $p_r(Z)\subseteq \mathbb{A}^m$ is closed, where

$$\begin{aligned}p_r: \mathbb{P}^n \times \mathbb{A}^m &\rightarrow \mathbb{A}^m \\ \left(\left[b_0: \cdots: b_n\right],\left(a_1, \ldots, a_m\right)\right)&\mapsto\left(a_1, \ldots, a_m\right)\end{aligned}$$

**_Proof._**
$X=\cup X_i$ where $X_i$ are affine open set. If the statement holds for any $X_i$, so for $X$. Define $Y=\mathbb{P}^n$. 

Since $Z\subseteq Y\times X$ is closed, $Z\cap (Y\cap X_i)$ is closed in $Y\times X_i$. Then $p_r(Z\cap(Y\times X_i))=p_r(Z)\cap X_i$ is closed in $X_i$. 

It remains to show $p_r(z)\cap X_i$ closed in $X_i$ yields $p_i(Z)$ closed. Notice that 

$$X-p_r(Z)=(\cup X_i)\cap (p_r(Z)^c)=\cup(X_i\cap p_r(Z)^c)=\cup (X_i-p_r(Z))$$

is open. 

Now we can assume $X$ is affine. There is an embedding $X\hookrightarrow \mathbb{A}^m$. Then $Z\subseteq Y\times X\hookrightarrow Y\times \mathbb{A}^m$. consider a commutative diagram 15:08

<p align="left">□</p>


> [!definition]
> We say $X$ is a complete variety, if for any $Y$ variety, $X\times Y\stackrel{p_r}{\to}Y$ is a closed map. (universal closed)

If $X$ is a complex manifold, then $X$ is universally closed iff $X$ is compact. 

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



**A compact complex manifold is universal closed.**  

</div></div>


"->" If $X$ is universal closed, then $X$ is compact.

(exist compactification $\widetilde X$ and $X\hookrightarrow \widetilde X$ is an open dense subset)

Consider $\Gamma_j:\{(x,x)\in X\times \widetilde X:x\in X\}$. If $\widetilde X$ is Hausdorff, then $\Gamma_j$ is closed: because $\Gamma_j=\theta^{-1}(\Delta)$ where $\theta:X\times \widetilde X\to \widetilde X\times \widetilde X$. 

Then $X=p_r(\Gamma_j)$ is closed in $\widetilde X$ and so $X=\overline X=\widetilde X$. Hence $X$ is compact. 

> [!proposition]
> Let $f: X \rightarrow Y$ be a morphism, with $X$ complete, then $f(X)$ is closed in $Y$ and is complete.

**_Proof._**
As $Y$ is a variety, $\Gamma_f=\{(x,f(x))\in X\times Y\}\subseteq X\times Y$ closed. 15:29


> [!proposition]
> If $X$ and $Y$ are complete, then $X \times Y$ is complete.

**_Proof._**
Since $X\times Y\times Z\to Y\times Z\to Z$ is closed, we have $(X\times Y)\times Z\to Z$ is closed.
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!proposition]
> If $X$ is complete and $Y \subset X$ is a closed subvariety, then $Y$ is complete.
{ #tbgc8l}


**_Proof._**
15:35
<p align="left">□</p>

Later, we will show $\mathbb{P}^n$ is complete. By [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.9 Complete Variety#^tbgc8l\|#^tbgc8l]] any projective variety is complete. 

> [!proposition]
> An affine variety $X$ is complete only if $\operatorname{dim} X=0$, i.e., $X$ consists in a single point.

**_Proof._**

15:44 

<p align="left">□</p>


> [!lemma] Nakayama lemma
> Let $M$ be a finitely generated $R$-module, and let $I\subseteq R$ be an ideal of $R$. If $M=IM$, then there exists $f=1+r$ with $r\in I$ such that $f\cdot M=0$. 
{ #0ws17n}


**Remark.** If we write $f=1-i$, then $fm=(1-i)m=0$ and so $m=im$ for any $m$. In wikipedia, this lemma has slogan as $M=IM$ yields there exists $i\in I$ such that $m=im$. 

******


> [!theorem] main theory of elimination theory
> $\mathbb{P}_k^n$ is a complete variety.

**_Proof._**
For a given variety $Y$ and $p:\mathbb{P}^n\times Y\to Y$, we aim to show $p$ is closed. Assume $Y=\cup_{i=1}^\ell U_i$ with open affine subvarieties $U_i$, if $\mathbb{P}_k^n\times U_i\to U_i$ is closed, then $p$ is closed. Hence, we can assume that $Y$ is an affine variety and $\Gamma(Y)=R$. 

For closed $Z\subseteq \mathbb{P}^n\times Y$, $\mathbb{P}^n=\cup U_i$ with $\Gamma(U_i)=k[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$. Then $Z\subseteq \mathbb{P}^n\times Y=\cup(U_i\times Y)$, where $\Gamma(U_i\times Y)=k[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_0]\otimes_kR=R[x_0/x_1,\cdots,x_n/x_0]$. 
Let $S=R[x_0,\cdots,x_n]$, and let $S_m=$ degree $m$ pieces. Define $A_m=\{f\in S_m:(x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i)\in I(U_i\times Y)\cap Z,\forall i\}$ and $A=\sum_{m\in \mathbb{N}}A_m$. 

> [!lemma]
> Fix $i$ and $g\in I((U_i\times Y)\cap Z)$, there exists $f\in A_m$ for some $m$ such that $f(x_0/x_1,\cdots,x_n/x_i)=g$. 

**_Proof._**
Since $g\in \Gamma(U_i\times Y)=R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$, there exists $N$ such that $x_i^N\cdot g$ is a homogenous polynomial of degree $N$, and $f(x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i)=g$. However, $f\in A_m$ not necessarily holds, that is, $f(x_0/x_j,\cdots,x_n/x_j)$ may not contained in $I(U_j\times Y\cap Z)$ for all $j$. 

Notices that $(U_j\times Y)-(U_i\cap U_j)\times Y\subseteq \{x_i=0\}\times Y$. Then for any $j$, $x_if(x_0/x_j,\cdots,x_n/x_j)\in I(U_j\times Y\cap Z)$, which is what we desired. 
<p align="left">□</p>

Now we go back to the proof of the theorem. 

To show $p(Z)\subseteq Y$ is closed, it suffices to show for any $y\notin p(Z)$, there exists an open subvariety $y\in V$ such that $V\cap p(Z)=\emptyset$. 

Define $m_y\subseteq R$ as the maximal ideal of $y$. Recall that for $p:U_i\times Y\to Y$, there is $I(p^{-1}(y))=I(U_i\times \{y\})=m_y\cdot R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$. If $V\cap p(Z)=\emptyset$ holds, then 

$$I(U_i\times \{y\})+I(V_i\times Y\cap Z)=R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$$

and so $I(U_i\times\{y\})+m_y R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]=R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$. Thus, there exists $g\in I((U_i\times Y)\cap Z)$, $m_\alpha\in m_y$ and $g_\alpha\in R[x_0/x_i,\cdots,x_n/x_i]$ such that $1=g+\sum_\alpha m_\alpha g_\alpha$. There exists $N\gg1$ such that $x_i^{N}g\in A_N$ and $x_i^N=x_i^N g+\sum m_\alpha (x_i^Ng_\alpha)\in A_N+m_y\cdot S_N$. 

Let $h$ be a monomial of $\deg h=d\geqslant (n+1)\cdot N$. There exists $j$ such that $x_j^N\mid h$ and $h\in A_d+m_y\cdot S_d$. In other words, if $d\geqslant (n+1)\cdot N$, $S_d\subseteq A_d+m_y\cdot S_d$. 

Note that $S_d/A_d$ is an $R$-module and $m_y\subseteq R$ is a maximal ideal. Since $m_y(S_d/A_d)=A_d+m_y\cdot S_d/A_d\supseteq S_d/A_d$, by [[MATH/代数几何/Nodes/1.9 Complete Variety#^0ws17n\|#^0ws17n]], there exists $f\in 1+m_y$ such that $f\cdot S_d/A_d=0$, i.e., $f\cdot S_d\subseteq A_d$. 

Let $V=Y_f=\{y:f(y)\neq 0\}$, and we claim that $V\cap p(Z)=\emptyset$. 

It suffices to show for any $z\in Z$, there is $f(p(z))=0$. Since $z\in U_j\times Y$ for some $j$, we have $z=([x_0:\cdots:x_n],y)$ and $x_j\neq 0$. Recall that $f\cdot S_d\subseteq A_d$, there is $fx_j^d\in A_d$ and so $fx_j^d/x_k^d$ is zero on $(U_k\times Y)\cap Z$. In particular, take $k=j$ and $f(p(z))=0$ for all $z\in U_j\times Y$. Now we finish the proof. 
<p align="left">□</p>


 

> [!corollary]
> Every projective variety is complete. 

**_Proof._**
For a closed variety $X\subseteq \mathbb{P}_k^n$, $X\times Y$ is a closed set of $\mathbb{P}_k^n\times Y$. For any closed $Z\subseteq X\times Y$, we have $p_X(Z)=p_{\mathbb{P}_k^n}(X)\subseteq Y$ is closed in $Y$ and so $X$ is complete. 
<p align="left">□</p>





