---
{"dg-publish":true,"draft":false,"permalink":"/MATH/交换代数/Nodes/10 Completions/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> Highlight: topological group/ring/module; $A$ Noetherian-> $A[\![x]\!]$ Noetherian.

**Example.** Product topology on $\prod_{i\in I}X_i$: its topological basis is generated by $\prod_{i\in I}U_i$ with $U_i\subseteq X_i$ for finitely many $U_i$ and $U_i=X_i$ for almost every $i$. 

In our course, we only use "open neighborhood". 

# Topologies and Completions

> [!definition]
> A topological abelian group is a abelian group $G$ equipped with topology such that $G\times G\to G,(a,b)\mapsto ab$ is continuous, and $G\to G,g\mapsto g^{-1}$ is continuous. 

**Examples.** They are topological groups:
- $(\mathbb{R},+)$ with usual topology
- any group equipped with discrete topology
- $(\mathrm{GL}_n(\mathbb{R}),\times)$

**Remark.** The category of topological abelian groups is NOT an abelian category. Consider 

$$(\mathbb{R},+,\text{discrete topology})\to (\mathbb{R},+,\text{usual topology}),a\mapsto a$$

which is a homomorphism of topological groups with trivial kernel and cokernel, but they are not isomorphism. *Clausen-Scloze: {condensed abelian groups} $\supset$ {topological abelian groups}*. 

In the following, only consider topological abelian groups. Notation: for $x\in X$, let 

$$N(x)=\{U\subseteq X:U\text{ open, }x\in U\}.$$

> [!lemma]
> Let $G$ be a topological abelian group, and let $a\in G$. For any $V\in N(a)$, $V=a+U$ with $U\in N(0)$. 

**_Proof._**
Consider the composite map 

$$T_a:G\to G\times G\to G,g\mapsto (g,a)\mapsto g+a,$$

which is continuous. Its inverse map is $T_{-a}:g\mapsto g-a$, which is also continuous. Hence $T_a,T_{-a}$ are homeomorphism. Hence $T_a$ maps $N(0)$ bijectively to $N(a)$. 
<p align="left">□</p>

> [!lemma]
> Let $U\in N(0)$, then there exists $V\in N(0)$ such that $V+V\subseteq U$ and $V-V\subseteq U$. 
{ #36d8qm}


**_Proof._**
Consider the continuous map

$$G\times G\to G\to G,(a,b)\mapsto (a,-b)\mapsto a-b$$

which deduces that $f^{-1}(U)$ is open. Since $(0,0)\in f^{-1}(U)$, we have $f^{-1}(U)\in N((0,0))$. Then there exist $U_1,U_2$ containing $0$ such that $f^{-1}(U)\supseteq U_1\times U_2$. Let $V=U_1\cap U_2\in N(0)$. One can check $f(V\times V)\subseteq U$ and so $V-V\in U$. 

Similarly we can get $V'$ such that $V'+V'\subseteq U$. Then $V\cap V'$ is what we desired, 
<p align="left">□</p>

> [!lemma]
> Let $G$ be a topological group. Let $H=\cap _{U\in N(0)}U$. Then 
> - $H$ is a subgroup;
> - $H=\overline{\{0\}}$, the closure of $\{0\}$;
> - $G/H$ is Hausdorff.
> - $G$ is Hausdorff iff $H=\{0\}$. 

**_Proof._**
i) Suppose $h_1,h_2\in H$, we aim to show $h_1\pm h_2\in H$. For any given $U\in N(0)$, it suffices to show $h_1\pm h_2\in U$. Note that $-U\in N(0)$ and $h_1,h_2\in \pm U$. Then $h_1+U\in N(0)$ and so $h_2\in h_1+U$, which yields $h_2-h_1\in U$. Similarly, we can prove that $h_1\pm h_2\in U$. 

ii) Note that $x\notin\overline{\{0\}}$ iff there exists $V\in N(x)$ such that $0\notin V$. But $V=x+V_0$ for some $V_0\in N(0)$. So $0\notin x+V_0$ yields $-x\notin V_0$. Therefore, $x\notin\overline{\{0\}}$ iff $-x\notin H$ iff $x\notin H$ by i) iff $\overline{\{0\}}=H$. 

iii) By ii), $H$ is closed. Recall quotient topology on $G/H$ is defined by $G\stackrel{\pi}{\to}G/H$, where $V\subseteq G/H$ open iff $\pi^{-1}(V)$ open. Since $\pi^{-1}(0+H)=H$ is closed, we know $\overline 0\in G/H$ is a closed point. Let $x, y\in G/H$ be distinct points. Then $x-y\neq \overline 0$, and there exists $U\in N(x-y)$ such that $0\notin U$. Also $U=(x-y)+U_0$ for $U_0\in N(0)$. Take $V_0\in N(0)$ such that $V_0-V_0\subseteq U_0$ by [[MATH/交换代数/Nodes/10 Completions#^36d8qm\|#^36d8qm]]. Since $0\notin U$, we have $0\notin (x-y)+(V_0-V_0)$. It deduces that $(x+V_0)\cap (y+V_0)=\emptyset$. Therefore, $G/H$ is Hausdorff. 

iv) "->" If $G$ is Hausdorff, then $0$ is closed and so $H=\overline{\{0\}}=\{0\}$. "<-" by iii). 
<p align="left">□</p>

**Remark.** Let $G$ be a group, and let $H<G$ be a subgroup. Then $G/H$ Hausdorff iff $H$ is closed. The proof is similar as above.

## Completion of Topological Abelian Group


