---
{"dg-publish":true,"draft":false,"permalink":"/MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/11 250506/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> [!definition]
> Two matrix representations $(r,\rho)$ and $(s,\sigma)$ are isomorphic iff $r=s$ and there is an element $f\in \mathrm{GL}_r(k)$ such that $\sigma(g)=f\rho(g)f^{-1}$ for all $g\in G$. 

# Extension of scalars

> [!definition]
> Assume $k$ is a subfield of a field $k'$. For a $k$-representation $(M,\rho)$ of G, its *extension of scalars* is a $k'$-representation $(k'\otimes_k M,k'\otimes_k\rho)$ where $k'\otimes_k\rho$ is the morphism 
> 
> $$G\to\mathrm{GL}(k'\otimes_k M),g\mapsto \mathrm{id} _{k'}\otimes \rho(g).$$
> 

**Remark.** A basis of $M$ over $k$ is identified with a basis of $k'\otimes_k M$ over $k'$. From the point of a matrix representation $\rho:G\to \mathrm{GL}_r(k)$, extending the scalars consists in viewing the matrix entries of $\rho(g)$ as elements of $k'$.

> [!definition]
> A $k'$-representation $(M',\rho')$ of $G$ is said to be *rational* over $k$, if there is $k$-representation $(M,\rho)$ such that $(M',\rho')\simeq (k'\otimes_k M,k'\otimes_k\rho)$. 
> 
> A matrix representation $(r,\rho)$ of $G$ over $k'$ is *rational* over $k$ if there exists $U\in \mathrm{GL}_r(k')$ such that for all $g\in G$, the entries of $U\rho'(g)U^{-1}$ lie in $k$. Similarly, see [[MATH/代数专题/Nodes/7 Character Table, Frobenius-Schur Indicator & Complexification#^df16b3\|Frobenius-Schur Indicator]]. 

For $k$-representations $(M,\rho)$ and $(N,\sigma)$, define
- $(M,\rho)\oplus(N,\sigma)=(M\oplus N,\rho\oplus \sigma)$, and 
- $(M,\rho)\otimes(N,\sigma)=(M\otimes N,\rho\otimes \sigma)$. 


> [!definition]
> We say $(M,\rho)$ is *indecomposable* if $M\neq 0$ and $(M,\rho)\simeq (M_1,\rho_1)\oplus(M_2,\rho_2)$ implies either $M_1=0$ or $M_2=0$. 

> [!definition]
> If $M_1$ is a subspace of $M$, which is stable under the actions of all $\rho(g)$ with $g\in G$, we get a *subrepresentation* $(M_1,\rho_1)$ of $(M,\rho)$ where $\rho_1(g)$ is a restriction of $\rho(g)$ to $M_1$. 

> [!definition]
> A representation $(M,\rho)$ is called simple (or irreducible) if $M\neq 0$ and the only $G$-stable subspaces of $M$ are $M$ and $0$.


> [!theorem] Krull-Schmidt theorem
> Let $(M,\rho)$ be a representation of finite degree. 
> - It is a direct sum of indecomposable representation. 
> - If $G$ is finite, and if $(M,\rho)\simeq \oplus_{i\in I}(M_i,\rho_i)\simeq\oplus_{j\in J}(M_j',\rho_j')$ where $(M_i,\rho_i)$ and $(M_j',\rho_j')$ are indecomposable, there is a bijection $\alpha:I\stackrel{\sim}{\to} J$ such that for all $i\in I$. $(M_i,\rho_i)\simeq (M'_{\alpha(i)},\rho_{\alpha(i)}')$. 

Let $(\Omega,\rho)$ be a set representation of $G$. (Remark that "Set" contains all sets and "sets" means it is a finite set.) 

Define by $k\Omega$ be a $k$-vector space with basis $\Omega$. Then $\rho$ induces a group morphism $k\rho:G\to \mathrm{GL}(k\Omega)$, which is a $\text{vect}_k$-representation of $G$. It gives a function $\text{Rep}(G,\text{set})\to \text{Rep}(G,\text{vect}_k)$. This construction transforms:
- disjoint union of set-representations into direct sum of $\text{vect}_k$-representation
- product of set-representations into tensor product of $\text{vect}_k$-representation

**Remark.** For a transitive/irreducible $(\Omega,\rho)\in \text{Rep}(G,\text{set})$ with $|\Omega|\geqslant 2$, we have $(k\Omega,k\rho)\in \text{Rep}(G,\text{vect}_k)$. Note that $S\Omega=\sum_{\omega\in \Omega}\in k\Omega$ is invariant under all $\rho(g)$, so $(k\Omega,k\rho)$ is not irreducible. 

> [!definition]
> The group $G$ acts on itself by left multiplication. The corresponding $k$-linear representation is called the regular representation of $G$.

> [!lemma]
> Assume that $k$ has characteristic $p$ dividing the order of $G$, then the line $k(S G)=\mathrm{span}\{\sum_{g\in G}g\}$ has no $G$-stable complement in the regular representation of $G$. 
> 
{ #ql65bq}


**_Proof._**
Let $kG=k(SG)\oplus V'$ as $k$-vector spaces. Then we have a projection $\pi:kG\to k(SG)$. In particular, $\pi(k(SG))=k(SG)$. If $V'$ is $G$-stable, then $\pi(gx)=g\pi(x)$ for all $x\in kG$ and $g\in G$ and so $\pi(g\cdot 1)=g\pi(1)$, which implies that $\pi(SG)=|G|\cdot \pi(1)=0$, leading to a contradiction. 
<p align="left">□</p>


For any $\alpha\in \mathrm{Hom}_R(M,N)$, define $g\cdot \alpha=\rho(g)\alpha\rho(g)^{-1}$. Thus $\mathrm{Hom}_\alpha(M,N)$ becomes a representation of $G$. Note that $\alpha\in \mathrm{Hom}_R(M,N)$ is invariant under all $g\in G$ iff $\alpha$ is a morphism $(M,\rho)\to (N,\sigma)$. In particular, there is a representation associated with $M^*=\mathrm{Hom}_k(M,k)$. For any $\alpha\in \mathrm{Hom}_k(M,k)$, $g\cdot \alpha=\alpha\cdot \rho(g)^{-1}$, which is called the *contragredient representation* of $(M,\rho)$. 

Action of automorphism group: 内自同构作用在表示的同构类上是平凡的，外自同构作用在上面不平凡。上节课讲的，还没加链接。

For a $1$-dimensional $G\to \mathrm{GL}_1(k)=k^*$, its kernel contains $[G,G]$. It deduces that $\mathrm{Hom}(G,k^*)\simeq\mathrm{Hom}(G/[G,G],k^*)$. 

> [!lemma]
> Let $(S,\rho)$ be an irreducible representation of $G$ and let $(k,\sigma)$ be a degree $1$ representation. Then the tensor representation $(S,\sigma_\rho)$ is still irreducible. 

# the Group Algebra

Recall the definition of $kG$, which is a $k$-vector space with basis $G$. Let $\tau:kG\to k$ be the linear form of $kG$ defined by $\tau(g)=0$ if $g\neq 1$ and $\tau(1)=1$. 

> [!lemma]
> - $\tau$ is a class function. For all $x,y\in kG$, $\tau(xy)=\tau(yx)$.
> - The map $\hat \tau:kG\to (kG)^*=\mathrm{Hom}_k(kG,k),x\mapsto(y\mapsto \tau(xy))$ is a $k$-linear morphism. 

**_Proof._**
- [ ] Exercise
<p align="left">□</p>

There is a $1$-$1$ corresponding 

$$\{\text{functions }G\to k\}\longleftrightarrow \mathrm{Hom}_k(kG,k),$$

and denote by $F(G,k)$ the $k$-vector space of functions $G\to k$. 

For $f\in F(G,k)$, the inverse image of $f$ under the isomorphism $\hat \tau$ is $f^0=\sum_{g\in G}f(g^{-1})g$. 

Let $f\in F$ be a class function, that is, $f(gh)=f(hg)$ for all $g,h\in G$. Identify $f$ with its correspondent in $\mathrm{Hom}_k(kG,k)$. Then $f(xy)=f(yx)$ for all $x,y\in kG$. 

Define。。。。没有记忆了。记得补notes