---
{"dg-publish":true,"draft":false,"permalink":"/MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/4 250318/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# Radical of Modules

> [!definition] maximal submodule
> A maximal submodule $N$ of $M$ is a proper submodule $N$ satisfying $N\subseteq U\subseteq M$ implies $U=N$ or $U=M$. Equivalently, $M/N$ is simple.

> [!definition]
> Define $\mathrm{Rad}(M)=\cap_{N}\{\mbox{maximal submodules }N\subseteq M\}$. If $M$ does not have maximal submodules, then define $\mathrm{Rad}(M)=M$. 

> [!lemma]
> Let $W$ be a proper $R$-submodule of ${}_RV$. If $V/W$ is finitely generated over $R$, then there exists a maximal $R$-submodule of $V$ containing $W$. In particular, if $V$ is finitely generated, then there exists a maximal submodule of $V$ containing $W$.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^fbacdf\|Socle and Radical of Module#^fbacdf]].
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!corollary]
> For every proper left ideal $I$ of $R$, there exists a maximal left ideal of $R$ containing $I$. 

> [!lemma]
> Let $M,N$ be finitely generated $R$-modules, and let $f:M\to N$ be $R$-morphism. 
> - $f(\mathrm{Rad}(M))\subseteq\mathrm{Rad}(N)$. 
> - If $f$ is an epimorphism with $\ker f\subseteq\mathrm{Rad}(M)$, then $\mathrm{Rad}(N)=f(\mathrm{Rad}(M))$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^27mw0t\|Socle and Radical of Module#^27mw0t]]. 
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!lemma]
> Let $U$ be an $R$-module.
> - Suppose that $M_1,\cdots,M_n$ are maximal submodules of $U$. Then there is a subset $I\subseteq\{1,\cdots,n\}$ such that 
>   
>   $$U/(M_1\cap\cdots\cap M_n)\simeq \oplus_{i\in I}U/M_i$$
>  
> - Suppose that $U$ is Artinian, then $U/\mathrm{Rad}U$ is a semisimple and $\mathrm{Rad}U$ is the unique smallest submodule of $U$ with semisimple quotient.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^r8oe32\|Socle and Radical of Module#^r8oe32]].
<p align="left">□</p>

# Nakayama lemma

> [!theorem] Nakayama's lemma
> Let $U$ be Noetherian(or finitely generated). Then $U\to U/\mathrm{Rad}U$ is essential. Equivalently, if $V$ is a submodule of $U$ with $V+\mathrm{Rad}U=U$, then $V=U$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^3f1b99\|Socle and Radical of Module#^3f1b99]].
<p align="left">□</p>

> [!proposition]
> - Suppose that $f:U\to V$ and $g:V\to W$ are $R$-morphisms of $R$-modules. If two of $f,g,gf$ are essential, then so is the third.
> - Let $f:U\to V$ be a homomorphism of Noetherian modules. Then $f$ is an essential epimorphism iff the radical quotient $U/\mathrm{Rad}U\to V/\mathrm{Rad}V$ is an essential epimorphism. In fact, if it holds, then the radical quotient is an isomorphism. 
> - Let $f_i:U_i\to V_i$ be homomorphisms of Noetherian modules for $i=1,\cdots,n$, then $f_i$ are all essential epimorphisms iff $\oplus f_i:\oplus U_i\to \oplus V_i$ is an essential epimorphism.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^q7sonb\|Socle and Radical of Module#^q7sonb]].
<p align="left">□</p>

> [!corollary]
> If $P$ and $Q$ are projective Noetherian modules over a ring, then $P\simeq Q$ iff $P/\mathrm{Rad}P\simeq Q/\mathrm{Rad} Q$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Socle and Radical of Module#^9ry2ru\|Socle and Radical of Module#^9ry2ru]].
<p align="left">□</p>


# Semisimple 

> [!definition]
> A ring $R$ with identity is called *semisimple* if ${}_RR$ is semisimple as a left $R$-modules. 

**Remark.** ${}_R R$ is called (left) *regular module*.

> [!theorem]
> TFAE for an Artinian ring $R$. 
> - $R$ is a semisimple Artinian ring.
> - Every $R$-module $V$ is semisimple.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^7dokb6\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^7dokb6]].
<p align="left">□</p>


# Some Isomorphisms

> [!lemma]
> Let $M$ be a left $R$-module. Then $M\simeq \mathrm{Hom}_R({}_R R_R,{}_RM)$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^cj265g\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^cj265g]]
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!corollary]
> For any ring $R$ with identity, one has $\mathrm{End}_R({}_R R)\simeq R^\mathrm{op}$ as rings.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^5830df\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^5830df]]
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!lemma]
> Let $R$ be a ring, and let $M_n(R)$ be the set of all square matrices of degree $n$ over $R$. Then $\mathrm{M}_n(R)^{\mathrm{op}}\simeq \mathrm{M}_n(R^\mathrm{op})$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^hvg28s\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^hvg28s]].
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!theorem] Artin–Wedderburn
> Let $A$ be a semisimple Artinian ring with identity. Then $A$ is a direct sum of matrix rings over division rings. Specifically, if ${}_AA\simeq S_1^{n_1}\oplus\cdots\oplus S_r^{n_r}$ where $S_1,\cdots,S_r$ are non-isomorphic simple modules occurring with multiplications $n_1,\cdots,n_r$, then $A\simeq \mathrm{M}_{n_1}(D_1)\oplus\cdots\oplus \mathrm{M}_{n_r}(D_r)$ where $D_i=\mathrm{End}_A(S_i)^\mathrm{op}$.

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^f43ojz\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^f43ojz]].
<p align="left">□</p>

# Simple Modules

> [!definition]
> A ring is called *simple* if it has no ideal other than $0$ and $R$.

**Example.** $\mathrm{M}_n(D)$ is a simple ring if $D$ is a division ring.

Notice that 

$$\mathrm{M} _n(D)=\left\{\begin{pmatrix} * & 0 & \cdots & 0 \\* & 0 & \cdots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots &  & \vdots \\* & 0 & \cdots & 0\end{pmatrix}\right\}\oplus \cdots\oplus \left\{\begin{pmatrix} 0 & \cdots & 0 & * \\ 0 & \cdots & 0 & * \\ \vdots &  & \vdots &  \vdots \\ 0 & \cdots & 0 & *\end{pmatrix}\right\}$$

and each part is a simple left $\mathrm{M}_n(D)$-module. 

# Algebras

> [!definition]
> Let $R$ be a commutative ring with identity, and let $A$ be a ring with identity. We call $A$ an *$R$-algebra* if $A$ is an $R$-module such that $a(xy)=(ax)y=x(ay)$ for any $a\in R$ and any $x,y\in A$. Equivalently, there is a ring homomorphism $R\to A$ such that the image of $R$ lies in the center of $A$. 
> 
> Moreover, if $R$ is a field and $A$ is a finite-dimensional over $R$, then we shall say that the algebra is finite-dimensional, which is both Noetherian and Artinian. 

**Examples.**
- Suppose $R$ is a commutative ring with identity and $G$ is a finite group. Define group algebra/group ring as $RG=\{\sum_{g\in G}a_gg:a_g\in R\}$, which is a free $R$-module with basis $\{g:g\in G\}$, then $RG$ is a $R$-algebra. 
- For a field $F$, the polynomial ring $F[x]$ is a $F$-algebra. 
- For a commutative ring $R$, $\mathrm{M}_n(R)$ is a $R$-algebra, where $r\mapsto \mathrm{diag}(r,\cdots,r)$. 

> [!lemma] Schur
> Let $A$ be a $k$-algebra, where $k$ is a field. Let $S$ be a simple $A$-module. Then $\mathrm{End}_A(S)$ is a division ring, which is a $k$-algebra. 
> 
> If $A$ is finite dimensional over $k$, so is $\mathrm{End}_A(S)$. 
> 
> Furthermore, if $A$ is finite dimensional and $k$ is algebraically closed, then $\mathrm{End}_A(S)\simeq k$. 

**_Proof._**
See [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^evw7zf\|Semisimple Artinian Rings and Algebras#^evw7zf]].
<p align="left">□</p>

