---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Integrality and Integral Closures/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# Integrality

Let $S$ be an commutative integral domain with $1$.

> [!definition]
> Let $R$ be a subring of $S$ containing $1_S$. We say $\alpha$ is an integral element over $R$, if there exists a monic polynomial $f(x)\in R[x]$ such that $f(\alpha)=0$. 


> [!proposition]
> Let $R\subseteq S$ be rings with $1_S\in R$ and $\alpha\in S$. TFAE:
> - $\alpha$ is an integral domain over $R$
> - $R[\alpha]$ is a finitely generated $R$-module.
> - There exists a subring $T$ of $S$ with $R\subseteq T$ such that $T$ is a finitely generated $R$-module and $\alpha\in T$.
{ #274bb5}


**_Proof._**
i)->ii) There is $f(x)=x^n+a_{n-1}x^{n-1}+\cdots+a_1x+a_0$ with $f(\alpha)=0$. Then $\alpha^n=-\sum_{i=0}^{n-1}a_i\alpha^i$ is a linear combination of $1,\alpha,\cdots,\alpha^{n-1}$. It deduces that $R[\alpha]$ is generated by $1,\alpha,\cdots,\alpha^{n-1}$. 

ii)->iii) Take $T=R[\alpha]$. 

iii)->i) Let $\epsilon_1,\cdots,\epsilon_n$ be a generator set of $T$ as an $R$-module. Write $\alpha\epsilon_i=a_{i1}\epsilon_1+\cdots+a_{in}\epsilon_n$ with $a_{ij}\in R$. It deduces that $-a_{i1}\epsilon_1+\cdots+(\alpha-a_{ii})\epsilon_i+\cdots+(-a_{in}\epsilon_n)=0$ and so

$$\begin{pmatrix}\epsilon_1 & \cdots & \epsilon_n\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix}
\alpha-a_{11} & -a_{21} & \cdots & -a_{n1} \\
-a_{12} & \alpha-a_{22} & \cdots & -a_{n2} \\
\vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
-a_{1n} & -a_{2n} & \cdots & \alpha-a_{nn}
\end{pmatrix}=\begin{pmatrix}0 & \cdots & 0\end{pmatrix}$$

where $A=\begin{pmatrix}\alpha-a_{11} & -a_{21} & \cdots & -a_{n1} \\-a_{12} & \alpha-a_{22} & \cdots & -a_{n2} \\\vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\-a_{1n} & -a_{2n} & \cdots & \alpha-a_{nn}\end{pmatrix}$. Multiplying $A^*$, we have $(\epsilon_1,\cdots,\epsilon_n)\mathrm{diag}(\det A,\cdots,\det A)=(0,\cdots,0)$. Hence $\epsilon_i\det A=0$ and so $\det A =0$. Therefore, $\alpha$ is integral over $R$. 
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!lemma]
> Define $S,R$ as above. Define subrings $M_1,M_2$ of $S$ such that $R\subseteq M_i\subseteq S$. If $M_1,M_2$ are finitely generated $R$-modules, then the ring $R[M_1,M_2]$ is finitely generated as an $R$-module.
{ #0f6d0e}


**_Proof._**
Since $M_1,M_2$ are finitely generated $R$-modules, there exists $\{m_1,\cdots,m_s\}$ and $\{m_1',\cdots,m'_r\}$ such that $M_1=\left\langle m_1,\cdots,m_s\right\rangle_R$ and $M_2=\left\langle m_1',\cdots,m_r'\right\rangle_R$. Note that each element of $R[M_1,M_2]$ is in the form of 

$$\sum_{\alpha,\beta}r_{\alpha,\beta}m_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots m_s^{\alpha_s}m_1'^{\beta_1}\cdots m_r'^{\beta_r}$$

where $m_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots m_s^{\alpha_s}\in M_1$ can be written as $m_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots m_s^{\alpha_s}=\sum r_j m_j$ and similarly for $m_1'^{\beta_1}\cdots m_r'^{\beta_r}$. Therefore, $R[M_1,M_2]$ is generated by $\{m_1,\cdots,m_s\}\cup\{m_1',\cdots,m_r'\}\cup\{m_im'_j:1\leqslant i\leqslant s,1\leqslant j\leqslant r\}$ as an $R$-module. Now we finish the proof.
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!theorem]
> Let $R$ be a subring of $S$ containing $1_S$. The integral elements of $S$ over $R$ form a subring of $S$ containing $R$. 

**_Proof._**
Since $\alpha,\beta$ are integral, by [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Integrality and Integral Closures#^274bb5\|#^274bb5]] we know $R[\alpha],R[\beta]$ are finitely generated. Then by [[MATH/抽象代数III/Nodes/Integrality and Integral Closures#^0f6d0e\|#^0f6d0e]], $R[\alpha,\beta]$ is finitely generated. It deduces that $\alpha-\beta$, $\alpha\beta$ are integral and so the integral elements of $S$ form a subring. 
<p align="left">□</p>


> [!definition]
> Let $R$ be a subring of $S$ containing $1_S$.
> - The subring of $S$ containing of integral of $S$ over $R$ is called the *integral closure* of $R$ in $S$. 
> - $R$ is called *integral closed in $S$* if every integral elements of $S$ over $R$ is containing in $R$.
> - We say an integral domain $R$ is *integral closed* if it is integral closed in its fractional field.
> - $\mathbb{Z}\subseteq \mathbb{C}$, if $z\in \mathbb{C}$ is integral over $\mathbb{Z}$, we call $z$ an algebraic integer. All algebraic integers form a ring. 


> [!theorem]
> A UFD is integral closed. 

**_Proof._**
Let $A$ be a UFD, and let $K=\mathrm{Frac}(A)$ be its fraction field. To show $A$ is UFD, it suffices to show for any $r\in K$ which is integral over $A$, $r\in A$. Assume that $r=r_1/r_2$ with $r_1,r_2\in A$ and $\gcd(r_1,r_2)=1$. If $r$ is integral over $A$, there exist $a_0,\cdots,a_{n-1}\in A$ such that 

$$\frac{r_1^n}{r_2^n}+a_{n-1}\frac{r_1^{n-1}}{r_2^{n-1}}+\cdots+a_0=0\implies -a_0r_2^n=r_1(r_1^{n-1}+a_{n-1}r_2r_1^{n-2}+\cdots+a_1 r_2^{n-1})\in A.$$

Since $A$ is a UFD, we know $r_2\mid r_1(r_1^{n-1}+a_{n-1}r_2r_1^{n-2}+\cdots+a_1 r_2^{n-1})$ and so $r_2\mid r_1^{n}$. It deduces that $r_2=1$ by $\gcd(r_1,r_2)=1$. Then $r=r_1\in R$ and we have done. 
<p align="left">□</p>


